# “The Future of AI-Augmented Data Science in the Enterprise”

## Michael Schmidt / Founder/CEO at Nutonian Inc.
* Abstract: Artificial intelligence has many uses, from facial recognition to self-driving cars. Machine intelligence (a newer subcomponent of AI) is perhaps the most exciting form of AI. Whereas previous approaches to AI rely on humans teaching the “machines” to learn and therefore replicate human ability, machine intelligence leverages evolutionary algorithms to scan data sets and enables the machines to educate the humans. AI and data-driven discovery were previously limited by human ability, experience, and bias, but this evolution of learning permits us to surpass what was previously possible. In his presentation, Michael Schmidt argues that the key to unlocking the value within data quickly, cheaply, accurately, and scalably, is through business experts leveraging smart computers and applications. With humans at the helm, machines are already producing new answers and explanations indistinguishable from, or exceeding, those of domain experts. Machine intelligence works by computing the most accurate answer in its simplest (i.e., easy-to-interpret) form. Machine intelligence empowers data scientists and BI professionals to not only predict the future, but to explain it. For example, manufacturers have used machine intelligence to both predict when a part will fail, and also pinpoint the reasons why (among thousands of confounding possibilities) to eliminate failures in the future. With proven success, the question becomes – why aren’t these technologies more widespread? Realizing broader applications is a top challenge of data science today, and radically different approaches are needed to interpret, communicate, and automate analyses.
* Bio: Michael Schmidt’s research focuses on “Machine Science” – a direction in artificial intelligence research to accelerate data-driven discovery. Over the past 6 years, he has worked on algorithms and techniques to automate knowledge discovery from data. In particular, he has published extensively on identifying mathematical relationships (such as laws of physics) in experimental data, and algorithms in evolutionary computation. Michael is the creator of the Eureqa project – a popular software program for discovering hidden mathematical relations in experimental data. His research has appeared in several news outlets from the New York Times, to NPR’s RadioLab, and Communications of the ACM. Currently, Michael runs Nutonian Inc. which specializes in scientific data mining and cloud computing for data analysis. In 2011, Michael was featured in the Forbes list of the “World’s 7 Most Powerful Data Scientists” by Tim O’Reilly.

